Roles and Responsiblities of this Project: Utilized advanced functionality from the Python library pandas for comprehensive data cleaning, handling missing values, and removing duplicates in dataset, ensuring data integrity and accuracy.
Applied data transformation techniques, such as converting data types.
Demonstrated proficiency in data visualization using Power BI to create interactive and dynamic dashboards. Developed compelling visual representations of cleaned and analyzed data.
Used Power BI features like filters and slicers to enhance user interactivity and facilitate a deeper exploration of the data.
Successfully managed end-to-end data workflows, from data ingestion to visualization, streamlining processes and improving overall efficiency in data analysis and reporting.
1. File named munnar_Dataset_before_data_cleaning.csv shows the data before data cleaning.
2. File named munnar_dataset.csv shows data after data cleaning.
3. File named Munnar_DataSet_Project.ipynb shows how i used functionality from Pyhton library pandas for data cleaning and data analysis.
4. In file named 1.pbix, I used conditional formatting in Background colour and I used Format Style as Rules on column price and calcutaled the average of Price then implemented the conditional formatiing on Price column if average is lower than the value of Price will show 'Yellow colour' otherwise it will show 'Blue colour'.
5. In file named 2.pbix, I used Pie chart to show Hotel names and their sum of rating.
6. In file named 3.pbix, I used conditional formattiing in Background colour and I used Format style as Gradient on columns Rating, Reviews,Star Rating, Distance to Landmark, Price and Tax to show if the value of each column is lower then it will show the less % of that colour in each column and if the value higher then it will show the higher % of colour in that column.
7. In file named 4.pbix, I used conditional formatting of Data Bars on columns Price, Rating, Tax and Reviews if in each columns the value is lower then it will show less bar colour in left to right direction and if in each column the value is higher then it will show higher bar colour in left to right direction.
8. In file named 5.pbix, I used conditional formatting of Data Bars of different colours on each columns Price, Rating, Tax and Reviews if in each columns the value is lower then it will show the less bar in left to right direction and if in each column the value is higher then it will show higher bar in left to right direction.
9. In file named 6.pbix, I used Line and Clustered column chart to show the data of Rating in x-axis and average of Rating in y-axis.In next tab, I used Line and Clustered column chart to show the data of Distance to Landmark in x-axis and average of Distance to Landmark in y-axis. In next tab,  I used Line and Stacked column chart to show the data of Price in x-axis and average of Price in y-axis.In next tab, I used Line and Stacked column chart to show the data of Tax in x-axis and average of Tax in y-axis. In next tab, I used Stacked column chart to show the data of Rating in x-axis and Count of Rating in y-axis. In next tab, I used Stacked column chart to show the data of Rating Description in x-axis and Count of Rating Description in y-axis. In next tab, I used Stacked column chart and I have converted 'Good to 1','Average to 0','Very Good to 2','Exceelent to 3 by writing Dax Measure and I have showed the data of Rating Description which is converted to nummerical in x-axis and Count of Rating description in y-axis.In this next tab, I used scatter chart to show data of Rating in x-axis and Price in y-axis.In this last tab, I used scatter chart to show data of Reviews in x-axis and Price in y-axis.
